# GreenBuildings
Over the past decade, both investors and the general public have paid increasingly close attention to the benefits of environmentally conscious buildings. There are both ethical and economic forces at work here. In commercial real estate, issues of eco-friendliness are intimately tied up with ordinary decisions about how to allocate capital. In this context, the decision to invest in eco-friendly buildings could pay off in at least four ways.

Every building has the obvious list of recurring costs: water, climate control, lighting, waste disposal, and so forth. Almost by definition, these costs are lower in green buildings.
Green buildings are often associated with better indoor environments—the kind that are full of sunlight, natural materials, and various other humane touches. Such environments, in turn, might result in higher employee productivity and lower absenteeism, and might therefore be more coveted by potential tenants. The financial impact of this factor, however, is rather hard to quantify ex ante; you cannot simply ask an engineer in the same way that you could ask a question such as, “How much are these solar panels likely to save on the power bill?”
Green buildings make for good PR. They send a signal about social responsibility and ecological awareness, and might therefore command a premium from potential tenants who want their customers to associate them with these values. It is widely believed that a good corporate image may enable a firm to charge premium prices, to hire better talent, and to attract socially conscious investors.
Finally, sustainable buildings might have longer economically valuable lives. For one thing, they are expected to last longer, in a direct physical sense. (One of the core concepts of the green-building movement is “life-cycle analysis,” which accounts for the high front-end environmental impact of ac- quiring materials and constructing a new building in the first place.) Moreover, green buildings may also be less susceptible to market risk—in particular, the risk that energy prices will spike, driving away tenants into the arms of bolder, greener investors.

The file greenbuildings.csv contains data on 7,894 commercial rental properties from across the United States. Of these, 685 properties have been awarded either LEED or EnergyStar certification as a green building. You can easily find out more about these rating systems on the web, e.g. at www.usgbc.org. The basic idea is that a commercial property can receive a green certification if its energy efficiency, carbon footprint, site selection, and building materials meet certain environmental benchmarks, as certified by outside engineers.

A group of real estate economists constructed the data in the following way. Of the 1,360 green-certified buildings listed as of December 2007 on the LEED or EnergyStar websites, current information about building characteristics and monthly rents were available for 685 of them. In order to provide a control population, each of these 685 buildings was matched to a cluster of nearby commercial buildings in the CoStar database. Each small cluster contains one green-certified building, and all non-rated buildings within a quarter-mile radius of the certified building. On average, each of the 685 clusters contains roughly 12 buildings, for a total of 7,894 data points.

An Austin real-estate developer is interested in the possible economic impact of "going green" in her latest project: a new 15-story mixed-use building on East Cesar Chavez, just across I-35 from downtown. Will investing in a green building be worth it, from an economic perspective? The baseline construction costs are $100 million, with a 5% expected premium for green certification.
